---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "terraconf_yaml Data Source - terraconf"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  YAML file data source. Allows reading configuration based on one or more YAML files. The filepaths are specified as a GLOB pattern. Optionally, a JSON schema can be specified to validate the configuration against.
---

# terraconf_yaml (Data Source)

YAML file data source. Allows reading configuration based on one or more YAML files. The filepaths are specified as a GLOB pattern. Optionally, a JSON schema can be specified to validate the configuration against.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "terraconf" {
}

data "terraconf_yaml" "input_data" {
  input_glob  = "./dnsrecords/**/*.{yaml,yml}"
  schema_file = "./schema/record.schema.json"
}

resource "cloudflare_dns_record" "records" {
  for_each = {
    for resource in data.terraconf_yaml.input_data.output
    : resource.id => resource
  }

  type = "A"
  tags = ["source:generated"]

  zone_id = each.value.zone_id
  name    = each.value.name
  ttl     = each.value.ttl
  content = each.value.target_ipv4
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `input_glob` (String) GLOB pattern to match YAML files against. For example, `./config/*.yaml`.

### Optional

- `add_annotations` (Boolean) If true (default), a special _terraconf annotation is added to every object in the YAML structure, whcih encodes the location of that object inside the configuration. This can be used in a custom function to display a rich error message, which points to the exact location of the error in the YAML file.
- `auto_flatten` (Boolean) If true (default), automatically flattens lists at the root of each YAML file into the output list. If false, each YAML file's content is added as a single element.
- `schema_file` (String) Path to a JSON schema file to validate the YAML files against. If validation fails, returns an error with the location in the YAML file.

### Read-Only

- `output` (Dynamic) The output of the data source. The structure of this output depends on the YAML files read. Returns a list where each element corresponds to one YAML file (or flattened list items if auto_flatten is true).
